---
layout: post
title: "[CV System] NoScope: Optimizing Neural Network Queries over Video at Scale"
comments: true
description: "VLDB2017"
keywords: "deep learning, scalability, specialized models"
author: Ziqiang Feng
---

> [PDF](http://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol10/p1586-kang.pdf)

## Summary
NoScope presents a suite of optimizations that significantly reduce 
computational cost of DNN queries on **fixed-angle** cameras.
There are mainly two techniques: *specialized model* and *difference detector*,
followed by a *cost-based optimizer* that finds best parameters of those two techniques.

## Intuition

**Fixed-angle** cameras give you many opportunities:

+ A lot of static background. Frame-to-frame movement is small. 
So you can exploit frame-to-frame difference.
+ Object of interest usually appear in the same angle (e.g., cars entering a parking lot's entrance).
So you can forgo CNN's **generality** of recognizing different angles of a class.
+ Categories of objects to appear are limited. For example, it's unlikely an aircraft carrier
will appear on CMU campus.
So you can forgo CNN's **generality** of recognizing many classes.

## Optimizations

### Specialized Models

**Forgoing unnecessary generality**

Use a shallow model to mimic a full model's prediction faithfully
but only on the **target** camera and the **target** object.
In other words, the shallow model can perform poorly on other cameras or other objects. (Who cares?)

**Teacher-student training**

Use the full model to generate labelled training data for the shallow model.

**Threshold and cascade**

If the shallow model is not confident enough (positive or negative),
pass to the full model.
A tunable parameter.
Trade-off between end-to-end accuracy and computational cost.

**Performance**

Reported 340X faster than full model.

### Difference Detector

Goal: detect small frame-to-frame difference so that we can reuse the prediction of the previous frame.

Input: reference frame, test frame

Output: whether we can reuse the prediction of the reference frame. 
If not, pass to the CNN (incl. the specialized model above)

**Variants**

1. Difference against a *fixed reference frame*.

2. Difference against an *earlier frame*.

**Extension**

1. Difference = mean square error

2. Blocking/tiling: slice frame into tiles and train a logistic regression to weigh each tile.
For example, in a street view, traffic lights change frequently but are irrelevant to detecting cars.

3. Frame skipping. Trade-off between accuracy and speed.

## Cost-base Optimization

There are several knobs regarding the above two optimization techniques:

Specialized model:

+ The CNN architecture of the shallow model

+ The confidence threshold to consult the full model

Difference detector:

+ Firing threshold of difference

+ Frame skipping interval

+ Choice of variants and extensions
 
 **The optimal configuration (choice of knobs) depends on the specific camera and task.**
